Requirement is Deploying a Web Application created By python

If you want to deploy this on one server what is the process?

1. Create AWS instance and connect with the same
2. Install Python and its dependencies
3. Application code is Required to deploy, you can copy or clone through git hub
4. Set up a configuration file (like DB URL, Port number, log diretory)
5. Start Applictaion as Service

If you want to do the same Process on 10 Servers (10 AWS Instances) what is the process??

1. Login to each Server manually complete below process
2. Install Python and its dependencies
3. Application code is Required to deploy, you can copy or clone through git hub
4. Set up a configuration file (like DB URL, Port number, log diretory)
5. Start Applictaion as Service

If We use configuration Management (Ansible)
-- We can automare all the steps in one file (called play book) which you can execute using
Ansible which will run automatically to all your server which ensures consistency and also it can 
make sure like there is no human errors

Popular Tools Used for configuration Management:

1. Ansible
    Agentless tool where you need to create YAML files (Playbook)
    its useful for web app deployment , automating some task
2. Chef:
    set up infrastructure automation
    it Ruby based files we need to create (called Recepies or Cookbook)
3. Puppet:
    good features for generating strong reports and working with compliance tools
4. Terraform:
    CaaS (Code As a Service): AWS lambda, Azure functions
    set up infra in code and manage changes with planned workflow
5. Kubernates configmaps and secret:
    for managing configuration in containarized environments
6. Helm:
    Kubernetes package manager for deploying application with some pre-configured templates

How to Setup Ansible
-------------------------------
To setup an ansible in Windows OS we can use WSL or we can install it via Python

Ansible with WSL will give you more explorer because it provides more features from linux purspective.

Enable WSL:
> wsl --install

Install Ansible in the Linux environments

update the package list in ubuntu
> sudo apt update

Install Ansible
> sudo apt install ansible -y

If installed successfully verify version
>ansible --version

Let's Create One playbook.YAML
----------------------------------------
---
- name: Test Ansible Playbook
  hosts: localhost

  tasks:
  - name: Print Simple Messaged
    debug:
      msg: "Hello Ansible is Working"

-- Once the Playbook is created Save the file
-- now this file we will run from wsl so move to your perticular drive using wsl
-- cd /mnt/d (this will move us to d: Drive)
-- cd /PhysicsWalla/'Devops OCT Batch'/Ansible

Run using below command:  
> ansible-playbook playbook.yml


Ansible Terminology
-------------------------------
1. Control Node:   Where we install Ansible, It manages tasks on managed hosts (nodes)

2. managed Nodes: The systems or servers that ansible manages. We can also called them hosts.
Ansible connect to these hosts via SSH(Linux) or WinRM(Windows)

3. inventory:
    File that list all managed nodes
    you can create this file manually or you can generate dynamically

    we can organize them in groups and sub groups to manage them efficiently

    [webservers]
    web1.server.com
    web2.server.com
    [databases]
    db1.server.com

Let's Create AWS instance using Amazon Linux AMI 
create new key download the same and paste that in your ansible foolder

-- in security groups open ssh, http and https from anywhere
create instance..

Once the instance is in the running state , select instance click on connect.

in SSH Client tab copy the example link for SSH connect run it from your WSL and check.
If you are getting any error run the same command at root level using sudo

check the connectivity....
Once we are able to verify the connectivity the next step is to create inventory file

these file is having configurations of all your hosts

create Docker.yml for installing docker in th aws instance

Ansible adhoc commands:

sudo ansible aws1 -i inventory.yml -m shell -a "sudo apt update"       
sudo ansible aws1 -i inventory.yml -m shell -a "sudo apt upgrade"

run the playbook:: 
sudo ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml docker.yml

sudo ansible aws1 -i inventory.yml -m shell -a "sudo docker version"

-m indicates module
-a indicates arguments

sudo ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml docker.yml

once playbook executed successfully verify it by using below commands.

sudo ansible aws1 -m shell -a "sudo docker ps" -i inventory.yml



















